Progress Report 33 (#33)
space-wizards/website-content: content/post/22-04-24-progress-report-33.md

    
Space Station 14 was able to run at our usual 30 TPS with over 200 players largely without issue. After lowering it to 20 TPS, which is what most SS13 servers use, the stress test peaked at ~250 players and continued to perform fine (aka everything was able to run during the allotted ticks).
</details>

tl;dr SS14 can definitely handle over 250 players and can probably handle over 350 players before the server starts to lag. Unless you do something wild like give everyone mechs with rocket launchers. Not too shabby, in my opinion.

{{< newsection >}}
### Explosion Refactor
*Contributed by ElectroSR*

Explosions have been completely refactored to be more visually and technically impressive. There's also a new UI for admins to create explosions and it comes with a very fancy preview of what will be annihilated.

{{< video-audio "/video/pr_33/explosions.mp4" >}}

{{< newsection >}}
### Modular Grenades
*Contributed by ElectroSR and Fortune117*

Fortune117 and ElectroSR added every Chemist's favorite tool - the modular grenade, which allows anyone with a screwdriver and some basic parts to create a grenade filled with anything from deadly acid smoke to healing chemicals.

> TODO: Video?

Reviewer: Probably easiest to just take the video from the #progress-reports channel

https://discord.com/channels/310555209753690112/310560938438819861/955233312656461864

{{< newsection >}}
## Mapping
This progress report sees the addition of 3 new maps. There's also a pile of updates to all the other maps, but we don't have the time or space to cover them all here. As always, the most up-to-date images for maps can be found on our [wiki](https://wiki.spacestation14.io/wiki/Maps).

### Delta Station
*Contributed by Timrod*

Delta Station, one of the largest maps in SS13, has been ported to SS14. It's so large that it's bigger than any other two SS14 maps combined. This incarnation is a mixture of /tg/'s map, Citadel's map, and a few unique changes to better fit SS14 mechanics like a remapped security department and removal of the AI satellite.

{{< imgw "images/post/pr_33/delta" >}}

{{< newsection >}}
### Marathon Station
*Contributed by Emisse*

Marathon Station has been added as a heavily-modified and rechristened port of SS13's Pubby Station. Hopefully the handful of Pubby fans will feel right at home, once they figure out where some of the departments went.

{{< imgw "images/post/pr_33/marathon" >}}

{{< newsection >}}
### Split Station
*Contributed by Peptide90*

To show you the power of SS14, Peptide sawed this ~~boat~~ station in half!

> Split Station is, as the name implies, split into two separate asteroids with a couple hallways connecting them. I sure hope nobody disconnects them and flies off with half of the station!

Reviewer 2: Note the fact that you can do this, as at the time of release of this PR grid splitting is merged.

### Fixes, Tweaks, and Balancing

- Flashlights now last 3.75x longer, flares now last 3x longer. *Contributed by Fishfish458*
- Hardsuits no longer make you as slow and hardsuit helmets are no longer sufficient protection in a vacuum on their own. *Contributed by mirrorcult*
- Crayons are now deleted when used up. *Contributed by actually-reb*
- Xenos are now space-proof. *Contributed by DogZeroX*
- Greatly reduced insulated gloves drop rate in maintenance, added budget gloves in its place. *Contributed by Emisse*
- Several tweaks to shuttle movement to make them feel nicer to fly. *Contributed by Radrark*
- Fixed some issues with audio playing twice or popups appearing twice. *Contributed by ElectroSR*
- Fixed popups moving with the player. *Contributed by DrSmugleaf*
- Fixed buckling on rotated grids. *Contributed by metalgearsloth*
- Fixed flickering in the character editor. *Contributed by elthundercloud*
- Fixed scrubbers all sharing the same list of gases to scrub. *Contributed by vulppine*
- Fixed violating the laws of classical mechanics via pulling. *Contributed by metalgearsloth*

{{< newsection >}}
## Technical
### Explosion Refactor
*Contributed by ElectroSR*

> TODO: Either write or nuke this section

Reviewer: Looking at other technical sections this might be overly long, in which case the third paragraph can probably just be omitted.

```suggestion
The old explosion code has been completely replaced. Previously explosions worked by using a simple raycast to check for obstructions, and then dealt damage to exposed entities based on their distance to the epicentre. Not only was this actually quite slow for large explosions, it also meant that any explosion would only ever destroy a single layer of walls.

The new explosion code uses a grid-based algorithm that iteratively looks for neighbouring tiles to add to the explosion. Airtight entities (i.e., walls) effectively delay the flood-fill in some directions, with a delay proportional to their health. The end result is that explosion can now properly penetrate multiple layers of walls, with each layer appropriately reducing the damage dealt to the next one. Additionally, the area that gets affected by an explosions is shaped by airtight obstacles. Explosions can now go around corners, and will deal more damage and travel further in confined areas.

The most convoluted part of the new explosion code is the need to support multiple rotated & translated shuttles and stations. It is challenging to have grid-based explosions that properly propagate onto and off of these grids, while also being blocked by airtight entities on those grids, and there are still some edge cases were explosions can skip past walls. Another challenge was ensuring that all the code is fast enough to allow for real-time nuking of the station. The biggest bottleneck is currently due to entity spawning and deletion, but there is also some physics slowdown due to having thousands of entities launched into space. Currently a station-destroying explosion still causes very noticeable stuttering, but there is still plenty of room for improvement.
```

### Fixes, Tweaks, and Balancing

- Flashlights now last 3.75x longer, flares now last 3x longer. *Contributed by Fishfish458*
- Hardsuits no longer make you as slow and hardsuit helmets are no longer sufficient protection in a vacuum on their own. *Contributed by mirrorcult*
- Crayons are now deleted when used up. *Contributed by actually-reb*
- Xenos are now space-proof. *Contributed by DogZeroX*
- Greatly reduced insulated gloves drop rate in maintenance, added budget gloves in its place. *Contributed by Emisse*
- Several tweaks to shuttle movement to make them feel nicer to fly. *Contributed by Radrark*
- Fixed some issues with audio playing twice or popups appearing twice. *Contributed by ElectroSR*
- Fixed popups moving with the player. *Contributed by DrSmugleaf*
- Fixed buckling on rotated grids. *Contributed by metalgearsloth*
- Fixed flickering in the character editor. *Contributed by elthundercloud*
- Fixed scrubbers all sharing the same list of gases to scrub. *Contributed by vulppine*
- Fixed violating the laws of classical mechanics via pulling. *Contributed by metalgearsloth*

{{< newsection >}}
## Technical
### Explosion Refactor
*Contributed by ElectroSR*

> The old explosion code has been completely replaced. Previously explosions worked by using a simple raycast to check for obstructions, and then dealt damage to exposed entities based on their distance to the epicentre. Not only was this actually quite slow for large explosions, it also meant that any explosion would only ever destroy a single layer of walls.
> 
> The new explosion code uses a grid-based algorithm that iteratively looks for neighbouring tiles to add to the explosion. Airtight entities (i.e., walls) effectively delay the flood-fill in some directions, with a delay proportional to their health. The end result is that explosion can now properly penetrate multiple layers of walls, with each layer appropriately reducing the damage dealt to the next one. Additionally, the area that gets affected by an explosions is shaped by airtight obstacles. Explosions can now go around corners, and will deal more damage and travel further in confined areas.
> 
> The most convoluted part of the new explosion code is the need to support multiple rotated & translated shuttles and stations. It is challenging to have grid-based explosions that properly propagate onto and off of these grids, while also being blocked by airtight entities on those grids, and there are still some edge cases were explosions can skip past walls. Another challenge was ensuring that all the code is fast enough to allow for real-time nuking of the station. The biggest bottleneck is currently due to entity spawning and deletion, but there is also some physics slowdown due to having thousands of entities launched into space. Currently a station-destroying explosion still causes very noticeable stuttering, but there is still plenty of room for improvement.

Author: ```suggestion
The old explosion code has been completely replaced. Previously, explosions worked by using a simple raycast to check for obstructions and then dealt damage to exposed entities based on their distance to the epicenter. Not only was this actually quite slow for large explosions, it also meant that any explosion would only ever destroy a single layer of walls.

The new explosion code uses a grid-based algorithm that iteratively looks for neighboring tiles to add to the explosion. Airtight entities (i.e., walls) effectively delay the flood-fill in some directions, with a delay proportional to their health. The end result is that explosion can now properly penetrate multiple layers of walls, with each layer appropriately reducing the damage dealt to the next one. Additionally, the area that gets affected by an explosion is shaped by airtight obstacles. Explosions can now go around corners, and will deal more damage and travel further in confined areas.

The most convoluted part of the new explosion code is the need to support multiple rotated & translated shuttles and stations. It is challenging to have grid-based explosions that properly propagate onto and off of these grids, while also being blocked by airtight entities on those grids, and there are still some edge cases were explosions can skip past walls. Another challenge was ensuring that all the code is fast enough to allow for real-time nuking of the station. The biggest bottleneck is currently due to entity spawning and deletion, but there is also some physics slowdown due to having thousands of entities launched into space. Currently a station-destroying explosion still causes very noticeable stuttering, but there is still plenty of room for improvement.
```
